the ancient Stoics aim to be resilient
towards two things beyond the control
and were determined on a path of virtue
mental toughness is necessary to be
truly good in the stoic sense we need to
be strong enough to control destructive
desires to choose virtuous activities
over vulgarity and to anchor ourselves
in the present moment mental toughness
can help us to live better lives achieve
our goals and navigate through life when
we're in dire straits in this video I
will share what ancient stoic texts can
teach us on how to be stronger between
the ears one you're more powerful than a
god when it comes to your own faculty
Seneca and Socrates died in a similar
fashion both were sentenced to death and
in both cases the execution or forced
suicide included the consumption of
poison but the most striking shared
characteristic was the equanimity in
which they left the world death is just
another phenomenon that isn't up to us
since nature creates and takes life at
will the same goes for losing the people
we're attached to thinks we might be
offended by and injustice that may
befall us in the end its nature that
decides the workings of the external
world not us for many people this
realisation could evoke a sense of
powerlessness for a part this is just
the good news however is that the
greatest strength of all is within our
control which is the power over our own
faculty this power is the essence of
mental toughness and also a muscle that
can be trained complete power over our
own actions as far as that power
stretches in a certain moment makes our
will untouchable even by the gods people
can inflict damage on to us humiliate us
but still we do maintain the power over
our reasoning and the actions that come
from that in his discourses
Epictetus pointed out that people can
influence his life only to a certain
extent the realm that's outside of him I
quote I must die must I then die
groaning - I'm
to be fettered and wailing - I must go
into exile
does anyone then keep me from going with
a smile and cheerful and serene tell
your secrets I say not a word for this
is under my control but I will fetter
you what is that you say man fetter me
my leg you will fetter but my moral
purpose not even Zeus himself has power
to overcome and quote a little sidenote
surely I'll publish a book that I've
written about becoming resilient
to what other people say from in cells
to mere opinions we don't agree with
using philosophical ideas I'll keep you
updated - laziness and procrastination
are unnatural as human beings we have
never been so comfortable but too much
comfort can lead to stagnation and even
the deterioration of the human spirit as
observed by Marcus Aurelius
once emperor of the world's most
powerful Empire now the following may
not be for everyone since it's heavily
based on stoic beliefs about nature I've
made a separate video about this if
you're interested the Stoics aim for
living in accordance with nature and our
human nature has set limits that vary
per person - how much sleep we need how
much food we need how much movement we
need etc in order to function properly
most people that spend days on the couch
watching Netflix with a bucket of ice
cream do this probably because it feels
nice and comfy but according to Marcus
Aurelius this is not a natural way of
living for a human being and therefore
it's wrong I quote so you were born to
feel nice instead of doing things and
experiencing them don't you see the
plants the birds the ends and spiders
and bees go on about our individual
tasks putting the world in order as best
they can and you're not willing to do
your job as a human being why aren't you
running to do what your nature demands
end quote according to the Stoics you
don't love yourself enough if you're
lazy because if you did you would love
your nature - and
your nature they believe this flame
within that shouts at you to make
something out of your life in a virtuous
manner an anti doubtful laziness is the
cultivation of courage a stoic type of
virtue that can be subdivided into
endurance confidence high-mindedness
cheerfulness and industriousness these
states are part of the eudaimonic
experience that can be loosely
translated as flourishing or the stoic
concept of happiness so considering that
laziness and procrastination are
unnatural and that we are born to play a
part in the whole or to be concerned
with putting the world in order as
marker states can be a huge mental boost
simply put we do feel our best when we
flourish we do not feel our best when
we're lazy and stagnant 3 contentment
breeds mental stability
surely the mind is very unstable when it
depends on external things to fulfill
its desires and to stay away from what
it a versus that's why stoic sages don't
want anything from the world but merely
use what they encounter on their path
granted by fortune foolish people on the
other hand are in a constant state of
wanting well being oblivious for what
they truly need so what do we truly need
to be happy not much as far as the
Stoics are concerned because when the
mind is content with its own self and
knows that the pursuit of externals is
not a way to happiness it can be truly
free as Seneca puts it for anything that
can be added to is imperfect
anything that can suffer loss is not
lasting but let the man whose happiness
is to be lasting rejoice in what is
truly his own and quote in this
completeness and state of not needing
anything more lies great strength from
the perspective of our modern times it's
the strength of not being encumbered
with social expectations and peer
pressure in regards to consumerism it
will also make one resilient towards the
ups and downs of life on the roller
coaster of constantly changing
circumstances equipped with a healthy
detachment thus so-called indifference
preferred or dis preferred
come and go and will neither add nor
subtract to the sages state of
contentment the concept of mental
toughness in stoicism may be slightly
different from what we hear and see in
today's popular culture which is highly
geared towards external achievement
however the sharp focus on our own
actions the consideration of our nature
and a healthy detachment from externals
might help us live life more fully nom
de les thank you for watching
[Music]